so today I'm doing another review video
of Kayla at Cena's bikini body 12-week
program some of you may know that I did
BB G for 56 weeks about four or five
years ago and I haven't talked about it
a lot on here not too much
however the quinby's reviews is to talk
about how these popular fitness and
nutrition programs are optimized are not
optimized for petite women shorter women
so I'm going to review BB g through the
lens of if it would be good for short
women and talk about my results and kind
of what happens a while on the program
and all of that fun stuff now this is
not a a review to bash the program I
really really respect Kayla it's eanes I
think her and her husband are amazing
business people and this is more just to
help you guys because I want to give you
an honest review of kind of what's out
there right now so in case you don't
know what BB G is basically this is a
program created by Kayla it's Ynez she's
Australian she's a trainer in Australia
and it is a 12-week guide that can be
done at home or the gym requires some
minimal equipment but it's mostly
bodyweight exercises and it's all very
high intensity workout kind of like hits
training meant to help get this
transformation really quickly now today
there's a lot of different versions of
it there's multiple guys there's the
sweat app she has which has all of these
other types of programs like power and
yoga and everything but I'm just talking
about the original bikini body guide BB
g1 it's also really what sort of
Instagram fitness craze back in the day
and that's the one that I'm focusing on
in terms of the workouts they're all
exercises that are very high in sets
they think about burpees mountain
climbers jumping lunges commando type
lots of body weights but explosive
plyometric movements and they're all
paired with each other so you'll do
typically four exercises back to back
for six or seven minutes then you get a
break and then you do that again and
then you do that again and again so four
times it comes out to be a 28-minute
workout which is also one way that she
really smartly market it is because it's
less than 30 minutes and
day however very very intense exercise
for those 28 minutes so that gives you a
little snapshot of the program if you've
never done it okay so I'm going to go
over six major points about BBG that I
think are relevant to this video and
talk about how they kind of affect us as
petite women
okay so point one that I want to bring
up is that Kayla's program is basically
disguised cardio it's a disguised cardio
program
she doesn't really advertise it as being
all cardio however a personal trainer
any personal trainer would take a look
at the program and say yes this is a
hits or cardio program and that's what
the main focus is it's hits training
hits style training now if you watch my
videos in the past then you know that
cardio and petite women is kind of a
touchy subject because when we as petite
short women start to do lots of cardio
it messes with our appetite hormones
okay so ghrelin goes up and this means
we're gonna be hungry more than we're
used to we're gonna crave foods we're
gonna be really hungry the reason why
this is harder for petite women than
taller women is we already have a low
calorie threshold because our
metabolisms are are slower so if you're
eating 400 cups not flaunted oh my god
should I be terrible if you're eating
1400 calories a day and now you're
suddenly so ravenous for most cardio
that you you eat more you're gonna be
eating over what you burned off in the
gym eating over what you're allotted in
a day and you'll have the opposite
result from what you want which is the
obeying weight instead of lose weight
now this is what happens when people
start doing high cardio programs and
gain weight and they say well what the
heck happened here nothing really
happened except you messed up all your
hormones and now you're really hungry
all the time and you don't want to put
yourself against yourself right you
don't want to be fighting hunger
constantly as a long-term lifestyle no
one can do that I can't do that I would
just eat it back because I don't mess
with the hormones if I'm hungry I'm
gonna eat so off the bat it's a cardio
program and you guys know this isn't
personal with the program just any
program that is only cardio and mostly
cardio using your body weight as getting
for getting the heart rate up heart rate
up is not going to be great for petite
women for the reasons I just
so this kind of segues into my next
point which is body weight exercises
will only get you so far when you first
start out if you've never worked out
before body weight exercises are great
it's a really really really great way to
get into fitness it's not intimidating
it's accessible you can do it anywhere
using your body as weight is a really
really good idea for beginner so I like
that about this program for a beginner
it's it's good for learning how to use
your body and exercise using just your
body weight yes there's minimal weights
in the program but mostly not if
anything she has like a couple pair of
dumbbells here and there but that's not
teaching that's not a weightlifting
program that's not at all so using body
weight has pluses if you're a beginner
but it has limitations because you're
not going to be able to see results pass
a certain amount of point using just
your body weight you will hit a plateau
where you will need increased intensity
you will need to increase the weight and
in order to grow muscle and continue to
burn tie and continue to build muscle
and continue to build a metabolism in
see results so that's one thing that I
noticed I did the program for 56 weeks
we'll get to my results but didn't see a
change and I'll tell you I fed all for a
year and one of the reasons is body
weight exercise just isn't going to
stimulate the muscles enough to continue
to see progress that being said when I
was like 13 or 14 someone I absolutely
loved was Cassie ho I don't know if you
guys know her Blogilates but I got into
fitness I mean I was in fencing and I
was a competitor but in terms of like
gym style stuff I got into that first
using Cassie hoes free youtube videos
and I thought it was so fun I love doing
them but that being said also they
really really have a limitation you're
not going to get to get those the body
you want just using your body weight
you're going to need to learn how to
love weights and really really to build
that lean muscle so the third thing I
want to bring up is about cardio again
so her program is not just a cardio
program it's a high-intensity interval
training cardio program also known as
hit hits is any type of exercise that is
a short burst of all-out effort paired
with a rest a short rest break and you
go back and forth stop and go stop and
go so with her program you're doing
burpees like high-intensity burpees
pairing out the jump lunges pairing that
with squat jumps or squat to press all
high intensity stuff lots of pounding on
the joints and what happens with high
intensity exercise and there's a lot of
research to show this is your stress
hormone known as cortisol will increase
when you have too much cortisol floating
around in your body you will hold on to
fact you will have stubborn fat and you
can you can increase your cortisol
levels from not getting enough sleep
from being stressed about anything
work-life relationships and also over
exercising and also doing high-intensity
exercise now on her program I was doing
high intensity interval training six or
seven days a week and a trainer will
tell you that the maximal amount you
should do hit is two times a week maybe
three and very special situations where
you're trying to break down muscle but
you don't need to do it more than once a
week two is pushing it I do it once a
week if that depends on what my goals at
the time so I was really really inducing
stress in my body and I just didn't know
it of course I could feel it I was
exhausted but yeah it's it's really
really not the best to be in a program
that is increasing your cortisol this
much because it's just going to make you
hold on to fat even more the other thing
about high-intensity interval training
is that it is high-impact so jumping the
impact it has on your joints and your
muscles ligaments your bones is very
high it's like running jumping rope if
you look at the lifestyle you want to
live I'm guessing you want to live a
lean healthy lifestyle for the rest of
your life ideally if you're doing hit
seven days a week that's not gonna
happen your body cannot handle that
amount of activity in a long-term way so
if anything this program might be okay
for a few weeks but as a lifestyle this
is absolutely unsustainable you can't do
hit six days a week
and expect your body to feel good it's
not going to be balanced from a hormonal
standpoint
that's one thing that I really really
started to notice was just I was so
stressed and I had so much inflammation
and the fat was not going anywhere and
one of the reasons why is because my
cortisol levels were definitely much
higher from doing so much okay point
four is kind of about the types of
exercises that are in the plan so it's a
kind of recycles
exercises throughout the plan you'll do
a lot of Herbie's have I said you'll do
a lot of burpees there's a lot of
burpees you're not gonna go many days
and you know without doing lots of them
it just kind of got repetitive and
monotonous and because there's nothing
teaching you for more telling you what
muscles you're working or really like
keeping you in a learning stage I just
kind of got bored of the workouts I felt
like it was limited they were just
recycling the same ones after a while
especially doing it a year there was no
new exercises after the first few months
it was just that for a year and that's
also not going to help you grow as a
person or grow muscle because you do
need to add new things in German you do
need to continue to stimulate the
muscles so that's just something I hear
too is a lot of people do it for a while
and then realize oh it's gonna be like
this forever there's no other like next
level and that's okay she has lots by
the way lots of programs now so it could
be really different now but back then
and I did the guide and then I moved
into the app so I did the guy and then I
did the sweat out for the rest of the
year and even with the online workouts
there wasn't much variation okay I have
a bone to pick with the name so when it
first came out I was young and it was
called the bikini body guide and it
still is but I think she um the size is
more about it being the bikini body
confident guide which I like more back
then this was pre body positivity era
this is think about it it was before the
time where people called having a bikini
body being you have a body and you put
on a bikini that wasn't a thing back
then it was mostly the message that I
got as a young woman was get the body of
a tall Australian model it made me feel
like I would never have a bikini body
kind of ironically there was like this
oh how the beginning
but you can never have because you're
small and you're short and you're just
not gonna look like this and that was
looking back it wasn't a healthy mindset
to have I just felt like I just wasn't
ever enough and today it's different I
know she emphasizes that it's about
being bikini buddy confident which is a
much better angle however back then this
could be on me I could have totally
misinterpreted the message but the
message to me was hot tall Australian
woman and it's a big she has bikini body
and like I don't look like her so I
don't have a bikini body right that was
what my young that's what the message
that I got and that made it me feel like
lesser than and so when I look back on
that I'm like okay the name I know that
maybe it's called sweat worn-out love it
because anyone can sweat I don't know if
I love the name it kind of it doesn't do
anything for me and I don't think it is
a body positive turn one so I've gone
through one two three four five six okay
let's talk about my results this is my
sixth point this is the most important
point of the whole video
I lost muscle on Kayla's program and if
you watch my videos you know that muscle
is the most precious thing for petite
women because the more muscle you have
the more calories your body has to spend
just to maintain it what this means is
you will burn calories in your sleep
you'll burn Congress when you're not at
the gym you'll burn calories when you're
living your life and that is the goal
right to burn fat when we're not even
trying to burn fat so I lost muscle when
I was doing a program because it's all
cardio and cardio is catabolic it's
going to break down muscle tissue I had
no idea that it was doing this to me
because I just didn't you know I wasn't
a trainer yet I didn't understand these
concepts of the building and losing
muscle I just thought that the way you
get in shape was you did cardio and
dieting and trust me it's the worst way
to go about this and that's how I went
about it if you know me you know I went
down that road for many years so I
actually lost muscle pretty much
everywhere except for my legs and the
reason why is because it was all
plyometrics which is light work so
you're jumping seven days a week you're
doing long jumps vertical jumps jump
this is going to cause your lights to
retain the muscle and grow the muscle so
you can imagine I wasn't super happy
when I ended up looking kind of I didn't
lose fat I didn't look toned but I had
lost muscle mass and I had big leg sale
and that was very frustrating for me I
can tell you right now I can remember
that mindset of just being like I work
out so much I worked so hard why did
this happen why does it look like this
and and the fact that you would lose
muscle on a program is a big concern to
me because most programs I believe
should be built around building muscle
today because that's what's gonna make
us healthiest that's what's gonna boost
our metabolism but through the lens of
petite women specifically muscle is is
very important and is the most important
thing for you as a petite woman because
it will increase your metabolism we
already have slower metabolisms so my
results on the plan and again this isn't
to shame the plan this is literally just
my honest opinion I make this these
videos for you to help you so I'm always
gonna be honest I'm not afraid of
anything here but I do also want to
caveat that there is a time and a place
to this program for the right population
like I said beginners taller people can
probably handle it know that we can't
handle it just that it's a lot of cardio
and we've been over this so all in all
not my favorite program I did do it for
a year I wouldn't take it back or
anything I learned a lot about my body
and if you love it and you're doing it
currently this is not to say it you
should stop and ditch this program do
what you love do what you love but if
you are worth thinking about doing this
program look into your options look at
how you can maybe learn to lift weights
if you really want to do this program in
addition maybe check out I don't know I
don't know how she has but I would just
say or join my program
Jayla slug I would just say that from
personal experience and also now as a
professional looking back at the
programming of the actual workouts and
everything it's really really meant to
break down fat and muscle but fruits
shorter person it's mostly just gonna
break down your muscle and that's where
I'm coming from with
so you guys if you found this video
helpful please give it a like and
subscribe for more content tailored to
petite women and if there's anyone you
want to see me review program what I eat
a day or whatever obviously I am a
certified personal trainer and certified
nutritionist so I would love to review
them for you through the lens of
short-girl gang and other than that
thank you guys for being here and I will
see you next Monday I have a great rest
of your week
[Music]